README.md, before:

# Omarchy Dotfiles

This repository contains my personal dotfiles for Omarchy, managed with [GNU Stow](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/).

## Philosophy

Following Omarchy's recommendations:
- All user configurations live in `~/.config` (never modify `~/.local/share/omarchy`)
- Use stow to symlink configs from this repo to their proper locations
- Version control everything to maintain consistency across systems

## Structure

Each directory represents a "package" that can be independently managed with stow:

```
omarchy-dotfiles/
├── ghostty/          # Ghostty terminal configuration
│   └── .config/
│       └── ghostty/
│           └── config
├── hypr/             # Hyprland window manager configs
│   └── .config/
│       └── hypr/
├── waybar/           # Status bar configuration
│   └── .config/
│       └── waybar/
└── ...
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

**1. Install yay** (AUR helper - needed for both official and AUR packages):
```bash
git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay.git
cd yay
makepkg -si
```

**2. Install stow** (symlink manager):
```bash
yay -S stow
```

### Quick Setup

**1. Install Programs** - Installs Ghostty (from AUR) and Tmux + TPM:
```bash
./scripts/app-install/install-all.sh
```

**2. Link Configurations** - Creates symlinks with stow (backs up existing configs):
```bash
./scripts/install-dotfiles.sh
```

**3. Apply Changes** - Restart terminals and start tmux to install plugins (`Ctrl+Space + I`)

### Programs Installed

The `install-all.sh` script automatically installs:

| Program | Source | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| **Ghostty** | AUR (via yay) | Fast, feature-rich terminal emulator |
| **Tmux** | Official repos (via yay) | Terminal multiplexer for managing multiple sessions |
| **TPM** | GitHub | Tmux Plugin Manager (auto-cloned to `~/.tmux/plugins/tpm`) |

**Individual Installation:**
```bash
./scripts/app-install/ghostty.sh    # Install just Ghostty
./scripts/app-install/tmux.sh       # Install just Tmux + TPM
```

## Helper Scripts

All helper scripts are located in the `scripts/` directory:

### Configuration Management
- **`./scripts/install-dotfiles.sh`** - Stow dotfiles (create symlinks)
- **`./scripts/status.sh`** - Shows all packages and whether they're currently stowed
- **`./scripts/add-config.sh`** - Automates adding a new configuration to the repo
  ```bash
  ./scripts/add-config.sh hypr ~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf
  ```

### Program Installation
- **`./scripts/app-install/install-all.sh`** - Install all programs at once
- **`./scripts/app-install/ghostty.sh`** - Install Ghostty terminal
- **`./scripts/app-install/tmux.sh`** - Install Tmux + TPM

## Usage

### Installing Configurations

From this directory, use stow to create symlinks:

```bash
cd ~/omarchy-dotfiles

# Install a specific package
stow ghostty

# Install multiple packages
stow ghostty hypr waybar

# Install all packages
stow */
```

### Uninstalling Configurations

To remove symlinks (won't delete the actual files):

```bash
cd ~/omarchy-dotfiles

# Uninstall a package
stow -D ghostty

# Restow (useful after moving files)
stow -R ghostty
```

### Adding New Configurations

1. Create the package directory structure mirroring your home directory:
   ```bash
   mkdir -p packagename/.config/appname
   ```

2. Move your config file to the package:
   ```bash
   mv ~/.config/appname/config packagename/.config/appname/
   ```

3. Stow the package:
   ```bash
   stow packagename
   ```

4. Commit to git:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add appname configuration"
   ```

## Current Packages

### ghostty
Ghostty terminal emulator configuration with:
- Gruvbox Dark Hard theme with custom background
- 90% opacity with blur effect
- Zsh shell integration
- Inconsolata Nerd Font Mono
- Font size: 5pt (compact display)
- Optimized for ergonomics and aesthetics

### starship
Minimal starship prompt configuration:
- Shows only current directory (no prompt character)
- Cyan colored directory with smart truncation
- Git branch and status with minimal icons
- Clean and distraction-free prompt with "on" connector

### tmux
Powerful tmux configuration with vim keybindings:
- **Prefix key**: `Ctrl+Space` (instead of default Ctrl+b)
- **Mouse support**: Enabled for easy scrolling and pane resizing
- **Vi mode**: Vi-style copy mode keybindings
- **Smart pane navigation**: `Ctrl+h/j/k/l` to move between panes
- **Current directory**: New panes/windows open in current path
- **Gruvbox theme**: Dark theme matching ghostty
- **Plugins**: TPM, tmux-sensible, tmux-yank, vim-tmux-navigator
- **No confirmations**: Kill panes/windows without prompts

## Version Control

This repository is tracked with git. To push to a remote:

```bash
git remote add origin <your-repo-url>
git push -u origin main
```

## Tmux Plugin Installation

TPM (Tmux Plugin Manager) is automatically installed when you run `./scripts/install-all.sh` or `./scripts/install/tmux.sh`.

To install the tmux plugins:

```bash
# Start tmux
tmux

# Install plugins by pressing: Ctrl+Space + I (capital i)
```

**Tmux keybindings:**
- `Ctrl+Space` - Prefix key
- `Prefix + I` - Install plugins
- `Prefix + U` - Update plugins
- `Prefix + |` or `%` - Split vertically
- `Prefix + -` or `"` - Split horizontally
- `Ctrl+h/j/k/l` - Navigate panes (vim-style)

## Omarchy-Specific Notes

- Never modify files in `~/.local/share/omarchy` directly
- Override Omarchy defaults by editing configs in `~/.config/`
- After changing `~/.config/uwsm/default`, relaunch Hyprland
- After changing `~/.XCompose`, run `omarchy-restart-xcompose`
- Most configs can be edited via Omarchy menu (Super + Alt + Space) > Setup > Configs

## Resources

- [Omarchy Manual - Customization](https://learn.omacom.io/2/the-omarchy-manual)
- [GNU Stow Documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/manual/stow.html)
- [Managing Dotfiles with Stow](https://brandon.invergo.net/news/2012-05-26-using-gnu-stow-to-manage-your-dotfiles.html)

Commit message:

refactor(install): remove yay checks for Omarchy compatibility
- Remove yay installation checks from ghostty.sh and tmux.sh
- Simplify prerequisites section in README
- Add note that dotfiles are designed for Omarchy (includes yay)
- Reduce script complexity and installation steps

Rationale: Omarchy distribution includes yay pre-installed,
so checking for it is unnecessary and adds complexity.

README.md, after:

# Omarchy Dotfiles

This repository contains my personal dotfiles for Omarchy, managed with [GNU Stow](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/).

## Philosophy

Following Omarchy's recommendations:
- All user configurations live in `~/.config` (never modify `~/.local/share/omarchy`)
- Use stow to symlink configs from this repo to their proper locations
- Version control everything to maintain consistency across systems

## Structure

Each directory represents a "package" that can be independently managed with stow:

```
omarchy-dotfiles/
├── ghostty/          # Ghostty terminal configuration
│   └── .config/
│       └── ghostty/
│           └── config
├── hypr/             # Hyprland window manager configs
│   └── .config/
│       └── hypr/
├── waybar/           # Status bar configuration
│   └── .config/
│       └── waybar/
└── ...
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

**Install stow** (symlink manager):
```bash
yay -S stow
```

> **Note:** These dotfiles are designed for Omarchy, which comes with `yay` pre-installed.

### Quick Setup

**1. Install Programs** - Installs Ghostty (from AUR) and Tmux + TPM:
```bash
./scripts/app-install/install-all.sh
```

**2. Link Configurations** - Creates symlinks with stow (backs up existing configs):
```bash
./scripts/install-dotfiles.sh
```

**3. Apply Changes** - Restart terminals and start tmux to install plugins (`Ctrl+Space + I`)

### Programs Installed

The `install-all.sh` script automatically installs:

| Program | Source | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| **Ghostty** | AUR (via yay) | Fast, feature-rich terminal emulator |
| **Tmux** | Official repos (via yay) | Terminal multiplexer for managing multiple sessions |
| **TPM** | GitHub | Tmux Plugin Manager (auto-cloned to `~/.tmux/plugins/tpm`) |

**Individual Installation:**
```bash
./scripts/app-install/ghostty.sh    # Install just Ghostty
./scripts/app-install/tmux.sh       # Install just Tmux + TPM
```

## Helper Scripts

All helper scripts are located in the `scripts/` directory:

### Configuration Management
- **`./scripts/install-dotfiles.sh`** - Stow dotfiles (create symlinks)
- **`./scripts/status.sh`** - Shows all packages and whether they're currently stowed
- **`./scripts/add-config.sh`** - Automates adding a new configuration to the repo
  ```bash
  ./scripts/add-config.sh hypr ~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf
  ```

### Program Installation
- **`./scripts/app-install/install-all.sh`** - Install all programs at once
- **`./scripts/app-install/ghostty.sh`** - Install Ghostty terminal
- **`./scripts/app-install/tmux.sh`** - Install Tmux + TPM

## Usage

### Installing Configurations

From this directory, use stow to create symlinks:

```bash
cd ~/omarchy-dotfiles

# Install a specific package
stow ghostty

# Install multiple packages
stow ghostty hypr waybar

# Install all packages
stow */
```

### Uninstalling Configurations

To remove symlinks (won't delete the actual files):

```bash
cd ~/omarchy-dotfiles

# Uninstall a package
stow -D ghostty

# Restow (useful after moving files)
stow -R ghostty
```

### Adding New Configurations

1. Create the package directory structure mirroring your home directory:
   ```bash
   mkdir -p packagename/.config/appname
   ```

2. Move your config file to the package:
   ```bash
   mv ~/.config/appname/config packagename/.config/appname/
   ```

3. Stow the package:
   ```bash
   stow packagename
   ```

4. Commit to git:
   ```bash
   git add .
   git commit -m "Add appname configuration"
   ```

## Current Packages

### ghostty
Ghostty terminal emulator configuration with:
- Gruvbox Dark Hard theme with custom background
- 90% opacity with blur effect
- Zsh shell integration
- Inconsolata Nerd Font Mono
- Font size: 5pt (compact display)
- Optimized for ergonomics and aesthetics

### starship
Minimal starship prompt configuration:
- Shows only current directory (no prompt character)
- Cyan colored directory with smart truncation
- Git branch and status with minimal icons
- Clean and distraction-free prompt with "on" connector

### tmux
Powerful tmux configuration with vim keybindings:
- **Prefix key**: `Ctrl+Space` (instead of default Ctrl+b)
- **Mouse support**: Enabled for easy scrolling and pane resizing
- **Vi mode**: Vi-style copy mode keybindings
- **Smart pane navigation**: `Ctrl+h/j/k/l` to move between panes
- **Current directory**: New panes/windows open in current path
- **Gruvbox theme**: Dark theme matching ghostty
- **Plugins**: TPM, tmux-sensible, tmux-yank, vim-tmux-navigator
- **No confirmations**: Kill panes/windows without prompts

## Version Control

This repository is tracked with git. To push to a remote:

```bash
git remote add origin <your-repo-url>
git push -u origin main
```

## Tmux Plugin Installation

TPM (Tmux Plugin Manager) is automatically installed when you run `./scripts/install-all.sh` or `./scripts/install/tmux.sh`.

To install the tmux plugins:

```bash
# Start tmux
tmux

# Install plugins by pressing: Ctrl+Space + I (capital i)
```

**Tmux keybindings:**
- `Ctrl+Space` - Prefix key
- `Prefix + I` - Install plugins
- `Prefix + U` - Update plugins
- `Prefix + |` or `%` - Split vertically
- `Prefix + -` or `"` - Split horizontally
- `Ctrl+h/j/k/l` - Navigate panes (vim-style)

## Omarchy-Specific Notes

- Never modify files in `~/.local/share/omarchy` directly
- Override Omarchy defaults by editing configs in `~/.config/`
- After changing `~/.config/uwsm/default`, relaunch Hyprland
- After changing `~/.XCompose`, run `omarchy-restart-xcompose`
- Most configs can be edited via Omarchy menu (Super + Alt + Space) > Setup > Configs

## Resources

- [Omarchy Manual - Customization](https://learn.omacom.io/2/the-omarchy-manual)
- [GNU Stow Documentation](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/manual/stow.html)
- [Managing Dotfiles with Stow](https://brandon.invergo.net/news/2012-05-26-using-gnu-stow-to-manage-your-dotfiles.html)
